Many laws regulate variation, some few of which can be 
dimly seen, and will hereafter be briefly discussed. I will 
here only allude to what may be called correlated variation. 
Important changes in the embryo or larva will probably en- 
tail changes in the mature animal. In monstrosities, the 
correlations between quite distinct parts are very curious; 
and many instances are given in Isidore Geoff roy St. 
Hilaire's great work on this subject. Breeders believe that 
long limbs are almost always accompanied by an elongated 
head. Some instances of correlation are quite whimsical : 
thus cats which are entirely white and have blue eyes are 
generally deaf ; but it has been lately stated by Mr. Tait that 
this is confined to the males. Colour and constitutional pecu- 



30 ORIGIN OF SPECIES 

liarities go together, of which many remarkable cases could 
be given amongst animals and plants. From facts collected 
by Heusinger, it appears that white sheep and pigs are in- 
jured by certain plants, whilst dark-coloured individuals es- 
cape : Professor Wyman has recently communicated to me 
a good illustration of this fact; on asking some farmers in 
Virginia how it was that all their pigs were black, they in- 
formed him that the pigs ate the paint-root (Lachnanthes), 
which colored their bones pink, and which caused the hoofs 
of all but the black varieties to drop off; and one of the 
"crackers" (i.e. Virginia squatters) added, "we select the 
black members of a litter for raising, as they alone have a 
good chance of living.'' Hairless dogs have imperfect teeth ; 
long-haired and coarse-haired animals are apt to have, as is 
asserted, long or many horns ; pigeons with feathered feet 
have skin between their outer toes ; pigeons with short beaks 
have small feet, and those with long beaks large feet. Hence 
if man goes on selecting, and thus augmenting, any pecu- 
liarity, he will almost certainly modify unintentionally other 
parts of the structure, owing to the mysterious laws of cor- 
relation. 

The results of the various, unknown, or but dimly under- 
stood laws of variation are infinitely complex and diversified. 
It is well worth whde carefully to study the several treatises 
on some of our old cultivated plants, as on the hyacinth, 
potato, even the dahlia, etc. ; and it is really surprising to 
note the endless points of structure and constitution in which 
the varieties and sub-varieties differ slightly from each 
other. The whole organisation seems to have become 
plastic, and departs in a slight degree from that of the 
parental type. 

Any variation which is not inherited is unimportant for 
us. But the number and diversity of inheritable deviations 
of structure, both those of slight and those of considerable 
physiological importance, are endless. Dr. Prosper Lucas's 
treatise, in two large volumes, is the fullest and the best on 
this subject. No breeder doubts how strong is the tendency 
to inheritance; that like produces like is his fundamental be- 
lief: doubts have been thrown on this principle only by theo- 
retical writers. When any deviation of structure often 



I 



VARIATION UNDER DOMESTICATION 31 

appears, and we see it in the father and child, we cannot tell 
whether it may not be due to the same cause having acted on 
both ; but when amongst individuals, apparently exposed to 
the same conditions, any very rare deviation, due to some 
extraordinary combination of circumstances, appears in the 
parent — say, once amongst several million individuals — and 
it reappears in the child, the mere doctrine of chances almost 
compels us to attribute its reappearance to inheritance. 
Every one must have heard of cases of albinism, prickly 
skin, hairy bodies, etc., appearing in several members of the 
same family. If strange and rare deviations of structure are 
really inherited, less strange and commoner deviations may 
be freely admitted to be inheritable. Perhaps the correct 
way of viewing the whole subject would be, to look at the 
inheritance of every character whatever as the rule, and 
non-inheritance as the anomaly. 